MiniVM - A Really Simple Virtual Machine
========================================

This is a really simple stack-based virtual machine written in Ruby.

It exists mainly because I wanted to learn more about Ruby.

I'm also thinking it might be a useful way to demonstrate programming
language concepts, such as how to translate an expression into
a sequence of instructions to evaluate the expression.

Usage
=====

Assemble and execute (this is the most useful mode):

	./MiniVM.rb -x t/hello.mvm

Assemble and execute interactively (also very useful, see operand stack
and output as program executes):

	./MiniVM.rb -x -i t/hello.mvm

To assemble a MiniVM assembly language program into an executable:

	./MiniVM.rb -a t/hello.mvm hello.mve

To execute an executable file generated by the assembler:

	./MiniVM.rb -x hello.mve

To execute an executable file interactively:

	./MiniVM.rb -x -i hello.mve

Note that you can run the `makeOneFile.rb` program to produce a single-file
version of `MiniVM.rb` and all of the classes it requires.  This is useful
if you want to deploy `MiniVM.rb`.

Technical Details
=================

[Documentation.md](Documentation.md) contains a technical description of MiniVM.

[InstructionSet.md](InstructionSet.md) documents the instructions supported by MiniVM.

Details of the assembly language can be learned by looking at the
[programs in the `t` directory](t).

Limitations
===========

There are probably some bugs.

The diagnostics when error conditions are encountered are inadequate.

More error checking is needed.

License
=======

MIT license (see LICENSE.txt).

Contact
=======

<david.hovemeyer@gmail.com>
